langid/prediction/README.md, before:

# Language Identification: Prediction

This repository runs several language identification (langid) models on different audio files.

| Table of Contents |
|---|
| [Installation and Setup](#installation-and-setup)|
| [Usage Example](#usage-example) |
| [Models](#models) |
| [Citations](#citations) |

## Installation and Setup

### Python Requirements
```
|-- prediction
|   |-- requirements  
|       |-- py3-10-11
|       |-- requirements.txt
|       |-- Dockerfile
|       |-- build_docker.sh   
|       |-- run_docker.sh
```

Check your Python version:
```sh
python --version
```
See [Anaconda](https://www.anaconda.com/download/success) as an option to switch between Python versions. This repository has been tested with Python 3.10.11.

Install requirements for Python 3.10.11:
```sh
pip install -r requirements/py-3-10-11/requirements.txt ## Python 3.10.11 requirements
```

Note: you may use the pip install command described above even if you are working with a different Python version, but you may need to adjust the requirements.txt file to fit any dependencies specific to that Python version.

### Requirements.txt License Information
License information for each set of requirements.txt can be found in their respective `pip-licenses.md` file within the requirements/python[version] folders.

### Docker Support
[Docker](https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/) support can be found via the `Dockerfile` and `build_docker.sh` and `run_docker.sh` files.

Please see Docker's documentation for more information ([docker build](https://docs.docker.com/build/), [Dockerfile](https://docs.docker.com/build/concepts/dockerfile/), [docker run](https://docs.docker.com/reference/cli/docker/container/run/)).

## Usage Example
See [scripts/main.py](src/main.py) for usage examples.

```python
from langid_predict import run_prediction

def main():
    """
    Runs lang id example
    """
    kwargs_whisper = {'model_id': 'sanchit-gandhi/whisper-medium-fleurs-lang-id'}
    run_prediction('../sample_files/first_minute_Sample_HV_Clip.wav', **kwargs_whisper)
    run_prediction('../sample_files/100yearsofsolitude_span.wav', **kwargs_whisper)
    run_prediction('../sample_files/mandarin_short.wav', **kwargs_whisper)

    kwargs_fb = {'model_id': 'facebook/mms-lid-4017'}
    run_prediction('../sample_files/first_minute_Sample_HV_Clip.wav', **kwargs_fb)
    run_prediction('../sample_files/100yearsofsolitude_span.wav', **kwargs_fb)
    run_prediction('../sample_files/mandarin_short.wav', **kwargs_fb)

if __name__ == '__main__':
    main()
```

### Arguments
The `predict_langid.run_prediction()` function takes in an audio input filepath (`input_fp`) and a set of keyword arguments to define the model and output.

`model_id` is the id of the langid model to use during the predictions task.
See [Models](#models) for a list of suggested and compatible models.

#### run_asr: kwargs
| Keyword Argument | Type | Description | Default Value |
|---|---|---|---|
| output_fname | str | The desired base filename of the output files. | Basename of input_fp. |
| num_predictions | int | The number of most likely language predictions and probabilities to output. | 10 |
| output_dir | str | The desired root folder to place output files. | "output/" in the base directory of input_fp. |
| model_id | str | The id of the desired model. | None |

### Sample Input and Output Files

```
sample_files
│   100yearsofsolitude_span.wav
│   first_minute_Sample_HV_Clip.wav
│   mandarin_short.wav
│
└───output
    ├───facebook_mms-lid-4017
    │   ├───2025-09-22T16-34-08-252927
    │   │       first_minute_Sample_HV_Clip.json
    │   │
    │   ├───2025-09-22T16-34-24-066659
    │   │       100yearsofsolitude_span.json
    │   │
    │   └───2025-09-22T17-32-53-281138
    │           mandarin_short.json
    │
    └───sanchit-gandhi_whisper-medium-fleurs-lang-id
        ├───2025-09-22T16-34-00-362607
        │       first_minute_Sample_HV_Clip.json
        │
        ├───2025-09-22T16-34-05-823805
        │       100yearsofsolitude_span.json
        │
        └───2025-09-22T17-32-48-375608
                mandarin_short.json
```

## Models
See HuggingFace for more information about each model.

- [facebook/mms-lid-4017](https://huggingface.co/facebook/mms-lid-4017)
- [sanchit-gandhi/whisper-medium-fleurs](https://huggingface.co/sanchit-gandhi/whisper-medium-fleurs-lang-id)

# Performance
The following table lists performance of select model and [PolyAI/minds14](https://huggingface.co/datasets/PolyAI/minds14) dataset combinations on small subsets of the datasets (due to performance limitations).
For more information, a model's card on HuggingFace may have their own benchmark results.

| Model \ Dataset                                   | PolyAI/minds14                                    |
| ------------------------------------------------  | ------------------------------------------------  |
| **sanchit-gandhi/whisper-medium-fleurs-lang-id**  | Accuracy: 62%, F1 Macro: 0.19, F1 Micro: 0.62     |
| **facebook/mms-lid-4017**                         | Accuracy: 88%, F1 Macro: 0.23, F1 Micro: 0.88     |

## Citations

```bibtex
@article{pratap2023mms,
  title={Scaling Speech Technology to 1,000+ Languages},
  author={Vineel Pratap and Andros Tjandra and Bowen Shi and Paden Tomasello and Arun Babu and Sayani Kundu and Ali Elkahky and Zhaoheng Ni and Apoorv Vyas and Maryam Fazel-Zarandi and Alexei Baevski and Yossi Adi and Xiaohui Zhang and Wei-Ning Hsu and Alexis Conneau and Michael Auli},
journal={arXiv},
year={2023}
}

@article{DBLP:journals/corr/abs-2104-08524,
  author    = {Daniela Gerz and
               Pei{-}Hao Su and
               Razvan Kusztos and
               Avishek Mondal and
               Michal Lis and
               Eshan Singhal and
               Nikola Mrksic and
               Tsung{-}Hsien Wen and
               Ivan Vulic},
  title     = {Multilingual and Cross-Lingual Intent Detection from Spoken Data},
  journal   = {CoRR},
  volume    = {abs/2104.08524},
  year      = {2021},
  url       = {https://arxiv.org/abs/2104.08524},
  eprinttype = {arXiv},
  eprint    = {2104.08524},
  timestamp = {Mon, 26 Apr 2021 17:25:10 +0200},
  biburl    = {https://dblp.org/rec/journals/corr/abs-2104-08524.bib},
  bibsource = {dblp computer science bibliography, https://dblp.org}
}
```

Commit message:

add option for all predictions

langid/prediction/README.md, after:

# Language Identification: Prediction

This repository runs several language identification (langid) models on different audio files.

| Table of Contents |
|---|
| [Installation and Setup](#installation-and-setup)|
| [Usage Example](#usage-example) |
| [Models](#models) |
| [Citations](#citations) |

## Installation and Setup

### Python Requirements
```
|-- prediction
|   |-- requirements  
|       |-- py3-10-11
|       |-- requirements.txt
|       |-- Dockerfile
|       |-- build_docker.sh   
|       |-- run_docker.sh
```

Check your Python version:
```sh
python --version
```
See [Anaconda](https://www.anaconda.com/download/success) as an option to switch between Python versions. This repository has been tested with Python 3.10.11.

Install requirements for Python 3.10.11:
```sh
pip install -r requirements/py-3-10-11/requirements.txt ## Python 3.10.11 requirements
```

Note: you may use the pip install command described above even if you are working with a different Python version, but you may need to adjust the requirements.txt file to fit any dependencies specific to that Python version.

### Requirements.txt License Information
License information for each set of requirements.txt can be found in their respective `pip-licenses.md` file within the requirements/python[version] folders.

### Docker Support
[Docker](https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/) support can be found via the `Dockerfile` and `build_docker.sh` and `run_docker.sh` files.

Please see Docker's documentation for more information ([docker build](https://docs.docker.com/build/), [Dockerfile](https://docs.docker.com/build/concepts/dockerfile/), [docker run](https://docs.docker.com/reference/cli/docker/container/run/)).

## Usage Example
See [scripts/main.py](src/main.py) for usage examples.

```python
from langid_predict import run_prediction

def main():
    """
    Runs lang id example
    """
    kwargs_whisper = {'model_id': 'sanchit-gandhi/whisper-medium-fleurs-lang-id'}
    run_prediction('../sample_files/first_minute_Sample_HV_Clip.wav', **kwargs_whisper)
    run_prediction('../sample_files/100yearsofsolitude_span.wav', **kwargs_whisper)
    run_prediction('../sample_files/mandarin_short.wav', **kwargs_whisper)

    kwargs_fb = {'model_id': 'facebook/mms-lid-4017'}
    run_prediction('../sample_files/first_minute_Sample_HV_Clip.wav', **kwargs_fb)
    run_prediction('../sample_files/100yearsofsolitude_span.wav', **kwargs_fb)
    run_prediction('../sample_files/mandarin_short.wav', **kwargs_fb)

if __name__ == '__main__':
    main()
```

### Arguments
The `predict_langid.run_prediction()` function takes in an audio input filepath (`input_fp`) and a set of keyword arguments to define the model and output.

`model_id` is the id of the langid model to use during the predictions task.
See [Models](#models) for a list of suggested and compatible models.

#### run_asr: kwargs
| Keyword Argument | Type | Description | Default Value |
|---|---|---|---|
| output_fname | str | The desired base filename of the output files. | Basename of input_fp. |
| num_predictions | int | The number of most likely language predictions and probabilities to output. | 10 |
| output_dir | str | The desired root folder to place output files. | "output/" in the base directory of input_fp. |
| model_id | str | The id of the desired model. | None |

Note: If you wish to produce a JSON with all predicted languages and their probabilities, you may set num_predictions=None.

### Sample Input and Output Files

```
sample_files
│   100yearsofsolitude_span.wav
│   first_minute_Sample_HV_Clip.wav
│   mandarin_short.wav
│
└───output
    ├───facebook_mms-lid-4017
    │   ├───2025-09-22T16-34-08-252927
    │   │       first_minute_Sample_HV_Clip.json
    │   │
    │   ├───2025-09-22T16-34-24-066659
    │   │       100yearsofsolitude_span.json
    │   │
    │   └───2025-09-22T17-32-53-281138
    │           mandarin_short.json
    │
    └───sanchit-gandhi_whisper-medium-fleurs-lang-id
        ├───2025-09-22T16-34-00-362607
        │       first_minute_Sample_HV_Clip.json
        │
        ├───2025-09-22T16-34-05-823805
        │       100yearsofsolitude_span.json
        │
        └───2025-09-22T17-32-48-375608
                mandarin_short.json
```

## Models
See HuggingFace for more information about each model.

- [facebook/mms-lid-4017](https://huggingface.co/facebook/mms-lid-4017)
- [sanchit-gandhi/whisper-medium-fleurs](https://huggingface.co/sanchit-gandhi/whisper-medium-fleurs-lang-id)

# Performance
The following table lists performance of select model and [PolyAI/minds14](https://huggingface.co/datasets/PolyAI/minds14) dataset combinations on small subsets of the datasets (due to performance limitations).
For more information, a model's card on HuggingFace may have their own benchmark results.

| Model \ Dataset                                   | PolyAI/minds14                                    |
| ------------------------------------------------  | ------------------------------------------------  |
| **sanchit-gandhi/whisper-medium-fleurs-lang-id**  | Accuracy: 62%, F1 Macro: 0.19, F1 Micro: 0.62     |
| **facebook/mms-lid-4017**                         | Accuracy: 88%, F1 Macro: 0.23, F1 Micro: 0.88     |

## Citations

```bibtex
@article{pratap2023mms,
  title={Scaling Speech Technology to 1,000+ Languages},
  author={Vineel Pratap and Andros Tjandra and Bowen Shi and Paden Tomasello and Arun Babu and Sayani Kundu and Ali Elkahky and Zhaoheng Ni and Apoorv Vyas and Maryam Fazel-Zarandi and Alexei Baevski and Yossi Adi and Xiaohui Zhang and Wei-Ning Hsu and Alexis Conneau and Michael Auli},
journal={arXiv},
year={2023}
}

@article{DBLP:journals/corr/abs-2104-08524,
  author    = {Daniela Gerz and
               Pei{-}Hao Su and
               Razvan Kusztos and
               Avishek Mondal and
               Michal Lis and
               Eshan Singhal and
               Nikola Mrksic and
               Tsung{-}Hsien Wen and
               Ivan Vulic},
  title     = {Multilingual and Cross-Lingual Intent Detection from Spoken Data},
  journal   = {CoRR},
  volume    = {abs/2104.08524},
  year      = {2021},
  url       = {https://arxiv.org/abs/2104.08524},
  eprinttype = {arXiv},
  eprint    = {2104.08524},
  timestamp = {Mon, 26 Apr 2021 17:25:10 +0200},
  biburl    = {https://dblp.org/rec/journals/corr/abs-2104-08524.bib},
  bibsource = {dblp computer science bibliography, https://dblp.org}
}
```
